- Tell me about yourself
                          - skills and qualities 
                          - add value 
   where it go wrong      - don't be overconfident

- what inspired to take cybersecurity course 
            - innovative
            - interested 
            - solve the challenge 
- about your resume contents 
- about your projects 
- what is security
- what is cybersecurity / Information security / cloud security 
- Identification, authentication , authorization
- cyber kill chain 
           - 5 steps or 7 steps from recon to clear tracks
- CIA Triad
- PPT
- TVA
- AAA
- Difference between audit and accounting 
- difference between vulnerability assessment and pentesting 
- difference between ethical hacking and pentesting 
- what is incident response 
- How do you prioritize incidents
- SIEM
- What is a three-way handshake?
- Which flag is for Advance/Aggressive Scan in nmap?
- What is subdomain enumeration?
- What is a subdomain
- What is DNS?
- One main difference between TCP and UDP?
- What is the first step of access control?
-What does ACL stands for? And what's use of it?
-ICMP stands for------?
-What is the second name of the proxy server?
-What is the size of the UDP header?
-Difference between IDS and IPS?
-stateful Vs stateless
-What is SQL injection?
-------------------
Cryptography
-------------------
What is Cyber security ?
What Do you have on Your Network ?
Define CIA Traid ?
What is IDS & IPS ?
What is SSL ?
What is Firewall ?
What is HoneyPot ?
What is Traceroute ?
What is Diffrence Between VA & PT ?
What are OWASP ?
Tell me about OWASP Top 10 Vulnerabilities ?
Can List Some Comman Cyber Security / web attack?
What is NAT ?
What are Diffrent IP Ranges ?
Tell me About Commonly used port numbers along with Protocol ?
What are Diffrent layers of OSI Model ?
What is VPN ?
What is Diffrence Between a threat,a vulnerability and a risk ?
What are Phases of Hacking ?
What are Diffrent types of Hackers?
What is Diffrence Between SSL & TLS ?
What is DoS & DDoS ?
What is Diffrence Between Events, Alerts & Incidents ?
What is Salting ?
What are diffrent Networking Devices?
What is secret-key cryptography?
What is public-key cryptography?
What is a session key?
What is RSA?
How fast is RSA?
What would it take to break RSA?
Are strong primes necessary for RSA?
How large a module (key) should be used in RSA?
How large should the primes be?
How is RSA used for authentication in practice? What are RSA digital signatures?
What are the alternatives to RSA?
Is RSA currently in use today?
What are DSS and DSA?
What is difference between DSA and RSA?
Is DSA secure?
What are special signature schemes?
What is a blind signature scheme?
What is blowfish?
What is stream cipher?
What is the advantage of public-key cryptography over secret-key cryptography?
What is the advantage of secret-key cryptography over public-key cryptography?
What is Message Authentication Code (MAC)?
What is a block cipher?
What are different block cipher modes of operation?
What is a stream cipher? Name a most widely used stream cipher.
What is one-way hash function?
What is collision when we talk about hash functions?
What are the applications of a hash function?
What is trapdoor function?
Cryptographically speaking, what is the main method of building a shared secret over a public medium?
What’s the difference between Diffie-Hellman and RSA?
What kind of attack is a standard Diffie-Hellman exchange vulnerable to?
What’s the difference between encoding, encryption, and hashing?
In public-key cryptography you have a public and a private key, and you often perform both encryption and signing functions. Which key is used for which function?
What’s the difference between Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption?
If you had to both encrypt and compress data during transmission, which would you do first, and why?
What is SSL and why is it not enough when it comes to encryption?
What is salting, and why is it used?
What are salted hashes?
What is the Three-way handshake? How can it be used to create a DOS attack?
What’s more secure, SSL or HTTPS?
Can you describe rainbow tables?
-What is Cryptography?
-What exactly are encryption and decryption?
-What are the goal of cryptography?
-What is the difference between a private key and a public key?
-What are symmetric and asymmetric key systems?
-What is polyalphabatic encryption?
-What is a block cipher?
-What is cipher block chaining?
-What is the Public Key Infrastructure(PKI)?
-why should we hire you?
-How can we rank or score a vulnerability?
-What is CVE?
-How to detect whether a file has changed in the system?
-Are you a team player or prefer to work alone?
-Why Cloud Computing is a risk?
-Why we need Cloud Computing?
- How do you secure the server 
- what are your strengths and weakness 
- Tell me about the subjects you learnt  during 1st semester 
- which subject had more impact on you why? 
-owasp top 10 
-burpsuit 
- wireshark 
What port does ping work over?
Do you prefer filtered ports or closed ports on your firewall?
How exactly does traceroute/tracert work at the protocol level?
What are Linux’s strengths and weaknesses vs. Windows?
What is a firewall? And provide an example of how a firewall can be bypassed by an outsider to
access the corporate network
Besides firewalls, what other devices are used to enforce network boundaries?
What is the role of network boundaries in information security?
What does an intrusion detection system do? How does it do it?
What is a honeypot? What type of attack does it defend against?
What technologies and approaches are used to secure information and services deployed on cloud computing infrastructure?
What information security challenges are faced in a cloud computing environment?
Can you give me an overview of IP multicast?
How many bits do you need for a subnet size?
What is packet filtering?
Can you explain the difference between a packet filtering firewall and an application layer firewall?
What are the layers of the OSI model?
How would you login to Active Directory from a Linux or Mac box?
What is an easy way to configure a network to allow only a single computer to login on a particular jack?
What are the three ways to authenticate a person?
You find out that there is an active problem on your network. You can fix it, but it is out of your jurisdiction. What do you do?
How would you compromise an “office workstation” at a hotel?
What is worse in firewall detection, a false negative or a false positive? And why
How would you judge if a remote server is running IIS or Apache?
What is the difference between an HIDS and a NIDS?
What is perimeter-based and data-based protection ?
What is Difference between VPN & VLAN ?
Waht are various types of Data breach ?
How can identity theft be prevented ?
Explain CSRF & security Misconfiguration ?
What is data exfiltraion ?
What is Diffrence between stream ciper and block cipher ?
What is cipher text ?
What are steps to setup a firewall?
Explain Diffrent types of firewall in details ?
What is Diffrence between HIDS & NIDS ?
whats are HTTP error codes ? name few ?
What is diffrence between information protection and information assurance ?
What isforwad Secrecy and how does it work ?
What is Diffrence between Diffe hellman and RSA ?
What is diffrence between Encryption and Hashing ?
Whta are several Indicators of compromise that an organization should look for ?
How to protect data in transit VS rest ?
What is Log parsing ?
What is log Aggeration? what are common ways to aggerate logs for SIEM ?
What is log Enrichment?
What is log Normalization and Categorization ?
What is SOAR ?
What are top benefits of SOAR ?
What is Cognitive Cyber Security ?
Explain SOC team Hierarchy ?
What are Diffrent SOC models ?
What is SLA ?
Why do we need SOC team ?
What do you document in an Inicdent ?
What ticketing tool you have worked on ?
Apart from SIEM what other tools have you worked on ?
What are diffrent dashboard you genrate ?
Explain the incident response/process lifecycle ?
Explain SIEM Implimentation phases ?
Explain SOC workflow ?
What do you document in Shift handover ?
Difference between Blue-team and red-team ?
what is SOP/playbook/runbook?
How do you handel P1 incident in SOC ?
What will you do if there are 200 alets tiggred at once ?
Explain Trojan Infection process ?
what is Cyberkill chain ?
What are Risk management phases ?
What is PKI ?
Take me though cyber security incident handling process ?
How will you secure server ?
What is diffrence between symmetric and asymmertic Encryption ?
What is Mitre Att&ck Frame work ?
What is session Hijacking & how it is diffrent from session fixiation ?
Assue you are head of security in you organiztion , a breach happen in your org how will you handle it ?
What is Zero day attack ?
What is AAA ?
What are splunk ports ?
How will you forwad logs and add log source ?
What command you will you use to check packetloss or not and the connection is working fine or not ?
How will you detect WAF or firewall ?
Explain Splunk Architecture ?
How do you provide email security ?
What types of long you will recive everyday ?
What is inbound and outbound traffic ?
What steps you will take in company as Security Analyst , in case of Ransoware attack ?
what tupe of patching tool you are familiar with ?
How do you Continously monitor a file in linux, you want to the file changes being displayed in screen frequently ?
What is web Cache poisoning ?
How you Detect Ransomware though SIEM ?
What is difference in Find & locate in linux ?
How does OpenVPN works ?
What is RCE on WebSite ?
What is kerberosting ?
What are diffrent types of VLAN ?
If IP is provided to you what will be your approch to do Vulnerability Assesment ?
How to avoid looping while sending packets from one switch to another ?
How you stay updated with currenty threats,vulerabilities, security issues, Data breach ?
Explain Weaponization in Cyber Kill chain ?
What is Delivery in cyber kill chain ?
What is Difference between Red Teaming and Penetration Testing ?
Explain any Vulnerability You know with respect to Cyber Kill Chain and MITRE ATT&CK Framework ?
Why XoR is very important in the Crypto world
Network Protocols
Could you explain what is phishing? How can it be prevented? 
What could attackers do with HTTP Header Injection vulnerability?
Describe the last program or script that you wrote. What problem did it solve?
Which classification of vulnerabilities get exploited the most?
How often should you scan?
What is the difference between an external and internal scan?
What is the difference between authenticated and unauthenticated scan?
How could a scan fingerprint an OS?
What is a CVSS score?
How should you break out scans?
How would you advise the different organizations on what they should patch first?
What is a vulnerability?
Are you familiar with any of the industry standard ways that vulnerabilities are tracked?
What is CVE and why is the standardization it provides important?
Where would you go to find additional info about a vulnerability?
What is the difference between an exploit and a vulnerability?
If there is a threat, but no vulnerability, would you say that there is still risk? What if there is a vulnerability, but no threat?
Can you list any vulnerabilities that you've recently heard about?
Are you familiar with any of the tools used to scan for vulnerabilities? If no, can you name any?
What is Intrusion Detection?
List the attributes of Security Testing?
What are the SSL connections and an SSL session?
List the full names of abbreviations related to Software security?
List down some factors that can cause vulnerabilities?
List the parameters that define an SSL session connection?
What are the three classes of intruders?
List the parameters that define an SSL session state?


Full Names of Abbreviations Related to Software Security:

CWE: Common Weakness Enumeration
CVE: Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
XSS: Cross-Site Scripting
CSRF: Cross-Site Request Forgery
SQLi: SQL Injection
OSINT: Open Source Intelligence
DDoS: Distributed Denial of Service
WAF: Web Application Firewall
IDS: Intrusion Detection System
IPS: Intrusion Prevention System

Factors that Can Cause Vulnerabilities: Several factors can contribute to software vulnerabilities, including:

Inadequate input validation.
Poor coding practices.
Misconfigured security settings.
Weak or default passwords.
Lack of timely security patches and updates.
Third-party libraries with vulnerabilities.
Inadequate access control.
Social engineering attacks.
Insufficient security testing.

